1. What data types do each of these values represent?
    1. String
    2. Integer
    3. Date
    4. Float
    5. Currency

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

    A database would be used when multiple sources need to access and modify a single data store simultaneously.
    A text file could be used when only a single source is accessing and modifying data with no other concurrent processes.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

    SQL is known as a declarative language, rather than a procedural language. This meaning that we don't have to write the procedure
    for finding the information in the database, but rather just tell the database what we want and let the database engine concern
    itself with finding and returning the data.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

    Relational databases are composed of a number of tables containing data. Within those tables are rows and columns describing the data
    and cells containing the actual data. SQL gives commands to the database based on the tables, and rows and columns describing data
    in order for the database engine to be able to determine what it is you want, which it then retrieves in whatever way it finds most efficient
    and returns it back as the answer to your SQL query.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

    Table - A structure for containing similar kinds of data
    Row - A row contains multiple cells of related data all pertaining to the same "item"
    Column - Columns contain a heading describing the data that will be contained within it and cells with values that are described by that heading
    Value - A value is an individual entry into the database, a single point of data found in a single table cell

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

    1. Integer
    2. Float
    3. String

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount        Find and return the values from the date and amount columns of the payments table
     FROM payments;

     SELECT amount              Find and return all the values from the amount column in the payments table where the value in the amount column is greater than 500
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     SELECT *                   Find and return the values from all the columns of the payments table where the payee is equal to 'Mega Foods'
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

 8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

    The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
    The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
    All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

    SELECT email, signUpDate
    FROM users
    WHERE name = 'Deandre Data';

    SELECT userID
    FROM users
    WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE userID = 4;
